# Overview

Building the RPM with the `shangmi` directory spec will install babassl into `/usr` to replace openssl in your system. There are some files needed by RPM-packed in the `RPM/shangmi` directory.
- `babassl.spec`: the shangmi BabaSSL spec which is modified based on the openssl spec.
- `10001-apps-only-display-BabaSSL-version-in-the-openssl-ve.patch`: There are softwares or scripts that will check the version number of openssl through the `openssl version` command in the centos and other mainstream operating systems. So in order to keep compatibility, it's better that we display the BabaSSL version in the `openssl version -a` and `openssl version` only display the OpenSSL version during the RPM-packed.
- `10002-sync-babassl-version-number-up-with-openssl-1.1.1g-.patch`: `sshd` and other applications will check whether the version number of RPM-packed openssl is consistent with the original system. Therefore, when packaging, a similar patch is required to keep it consistent with the original system's openssl version number. Take this patch as an example. It is to solve the problem of inconsistent openssl version number in `openssl 1.1.1g-FIPS` systems (such as `anolis os 8.4`).
- `opensslconf-new.h` and `opensslconf-new-warning.h`: they are both brought from the `Openssl 1.1.1 rpm` repository. Do an `opensslconf.h` switcheroo to avoid file conflicts on systems where you can have both a `32-` and `64-bit` version of the library, and they each need their own correct-but-different versions of opensslconf.h to be usable.
- `Makefile.certificate`:  it is both brought from the `Openssl 1.1.1` rpm repository and will be installed in the `/usr/share/doc/openssl/Makefile.certificate`. It can generate keys and self-signed certs.
- `make-dummy-cert` and `renew-dummy-cert`: they are both brought from the `Openssl 1.1.1 rpm` repository. They are used for generating the keys and self-signed certs for the Redhat-compatible OSes. Besides, they are needed by some softwares or applications(such as `mod_ssl + httpd`).
